OADP-8505: Add OADP 1.3.10 RNs (#117209)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oadp-release-notes-1-3-10.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/release-notes/oadp-release-notes-1-3.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE

[id="oadp-1-3-10-release-notes_{context}"]
= {oadp-short} 1.3.10 release notes

[role="_abstract"]
{oadp-first} 1.3.10 release notes list new features and resolved issues.

The following Red Hat Security Advisory (RHSA) is available for {oadp-short} 1.3.10:

> * link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-2026:xxxxx[RHSA-2026:xxxxx - New version of Red{nbsp}Hat OpenShift API for Data Protection]

Reviewer: 404 page not found error when clicked

Author: That is expected. It is a placeholder as the RHSA wasn't published yet. I will replace it with an actual link before publishing. Thanks for checking it thoroughly!

Author: Replaced with an actual link

[id="new-features-1-3-10_{context}"]
== New features

{oadp-short} CLI plugin::

> {oadp-short} includes a `kubectl` command-line interface (CLI) plugin that provides a `kubectl` native interface for managing backups and restores. Before this update, you aliased to the Velero CLI to perform backup operations. With the CLI plugin, you can run `kubectl oadp` commands to manage cluster-wide Velero operations directly through a single command-line interface.

Reviewer 2: `kubectl oadp` or `oc oadp` commands

Reviewer 2: @vashirova one change otherwise LGTM !

Author: Added, thank you!

> {oadp-short} includes a `kubectl` command-line interface (CLI) plugin that provides a `kubectl` native interface for managing backups and restores. Before this update, you aliased to the Velero CLI to perform backup operations. With the CLI plugin, you can run `kubectl oadp` or `oc oadp` commands to manage cluster-wide Velero operations directly through a single command-line interface.

Reviewer 3: This is really just personal taste :-D Feel free to ignore!
```suggestion
{oadp-short} includes a `kubectl` command-line interface (CLI) plugin that provides a `kubectl` native interface for managing backups and restores. Before this update, you aliased to the Velero CLI to perform backup operations. With the CLI plugin, you can run the `kubectl oadp` or `oc oadp` command to manage cluster-wide Velero operations directly through a single command-line interface.
```

Author: I'll go with plural

> {oadp-short} includes a `kubectl` command-line interface (CLI) plugin that provides a `kubectl` native interface for managing backups and restores. Before this update, you aliased to the Velero CLI to perform backup operations. Non-cluster administrators had no way to independently manage their own backups, creating a dependency on cluster admins for routine data protection tasks. As a result, admins can run `kubectl oadp` commands to create, delete, and retrieve logs for backups and restores. Non-cluster admins can independently create, delete, and inspect non-admin backups within their permitted namespaces.

Reviewer: Non-admin is not supported in 1.3.10, so I think we should remove the references to non-admin backups. @weshayutin ?

Author: Removed

+
link:https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/OADP-8077[OADP-8077]

[id="resolved-issues-1-3-10_{context}"]
== Resolved issues

{oadp-short} workload pods use dedicated service accounts::
Before this update, the `oadp-cli-server` workload pods in the `openshift-adp` namespace used the default service account instead of dedicated, workload-specific service accounts. As a consequence, access control validation checks failed during deployment verification. With this release, dedicated and valid service accounts are properly assigned to these workload pods. As a result, all {oadp-short} workload pods comply with access control verification and adhere to cluster security standards.
+
link:https://redhat.atlassian.net/browse/OADP-8450[OADP-8450]

> {oadp-short} containers now include liveness, readiness, and startup probes::

Reviewer 3: This "now" guidance that we have :D
```suggestion
{oadp-short} containers include liveness, readiness, and startup probes::
```

Author: Ah good catch, removing 'now'.

> Before this update, the `oadp-cli-server` and `oadp-vmdp-server` workload pods in the `openshift-adp` namespace used the default service account instead of dedicated, workload-specific service accounts. As a consequence, access control validation checks failed during deployment verification. With this release, dedicated and valid service accounts are properly assigned to these workload pods. As a result, all {oadp-short} workload pods comply with access control verification and adhere to cluster security standards.

Reviewer: `oadp-vmdp-server` is supported from 1.6; please remove it

Author: Removed

> Before this update, the {oadp-short} command-line interface (CLI) containers did not have configured Kubernetes health probes (liveness, readiness, and startup probes). As a consequence, workloads could not automatically recover from common failures, such as pod, host, or network issues. With this release, liveness, readiness, and startup probes was added to the deployed containers. As a result, workloads can now use native Kubernetes health-checking mechanisms to self-recover from failures and ensure reliable application traffic routing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Before this update, the {oadp-short} command-line interface (CLI) containers did not have configured Kubernetes health probes (liveness, readiness, and startup probes). As a consequence, workloads could not automatically recover from common failures, such as pod, host, or network issues. With this release, liveness, readiness, and startup probes were added to the deployed containers. As a result, workloads can use native Kubernetes health-checking mechanisms to self-recover from failures and ensure reliable application traffic routing.
```

Author: Applied too

> Before this update, the {oadp-short} command-line interface (CLI) and virtual machine data protection (VMDP) containers did not have configured Kubernetes health probes (liveness, readiness, and startup probes). As a consequence, workloads could not automatically recover from common failures, such as pod, host, or network issues. With this release, liveness, readiness, and startup probes was added to the deployed containers. As a result, workloads can now use native Kubernetes health-checking mechanisms to self-recover from failures and ensure reliable application traffic routing.

Reviewer: Remove virtual machine data protection (VMDP); it's not supported in 1.3.10

Author: Removed
